Trump’s energy plan will focus on increasing fossil fuel production, and lifting restrictions on oil and gas companies. Trump’s campaign cited study from the Institute of Energy Research (IER) that lifting regulations on American energy production will amount to $700 billion increase in annual economic output. Trump’s energy plan will focus on oil drilling, increasing coal production, lifting regulations, hydraulic fracturing, and supporting the Keystone XL pipeline.
Trump’s campaign stated that it would revoke Obama’s restrictions on drilling in the Artic and Atlantic coast. Obama, since Trump’s election, used executive authority to permanently ban drilling in 120 million acres of land in parts of Artic and Atlantic oceans. This was a result of Trump’s newly appointed Secretary of State, CEO of Exxon Mobil Rex Tillerson. Canada’s President Justin Trudeau simultaneously all Artic Canadian waters off limits to drilling. There has been scrutiny of this, and we will see if this action will be revoked.
Fracking will also be increased in Trump’s administration which is a method of injecting liquid deep into the Earth’s crust to obtain natural gas reserves. This has resulted in contamination of groundwater and has been linked to earthquakes where fracking occurs. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has also fined energy companies in North Dakota for fracking, but was opposed by Trump. Trump’s strong stance on hydraulic fracturing will become more apparent in his first 100 days in presidency. 
Trump also supports the Keystone XL pipeline which will bring crude oil from Alberta, Canada to the gulf coast of Texas. There has been much opposition to developing the Keystone Pipeline due to the construction permanently hurting the natural ecosystem of inhabitants of that area. 
Lastly, Trump’s campaign has said it will save the coal industry which has seen declines in production in the last few decades. Coal power, is the US’s top source of carbon dioxide, and has also provided jobs to states such as West Virginia and Pennsylvania. With Trump’s victory in Pennsylvania, he will have pressure to increase and revive the coal industry that has led to many jobs in the Pennsylvania that have become more obsolete in the recent decades. 
Overall, Trump’s energy plan will likely support the fossil fuel companies and reverse negotiations and agreements during Obama’s administration on environmental issues. Learning about the differences on Trump’s energy plan and Obama’s administration is interesting. Global warming has become a more pressing issue in the last decade, and understanding Trump’s stance on the fossil fuel industry and renewable energy is important. According to NASA research, each of the first six months of 2016 set a record as the warmest since 1880. Academic studies indicate that although Trump’s energy plan will increase economic output in the near future, increasing investment on renewable energy will result in long term higher growth for the economy. Trump’s presidency and announced energy plan with favoring the fossil fuel industry will have immense results for the environment for decades to come. 