President-elect Donald Trump brought his campaign against what he considers fake news to his first major press conference since winning the election.
What played out could suggest contentious times ahead for mainstream media outlets while covering the incoming administration. At one point, the president-elect shouted down CNN reporter Jim Acosta, labeling the cable news network as "fake news" for its report that U.S. intelligence agencies had briefed the incoming president and President Obama with allegations that Russian operatives claim to have potentially compromising personal and financial information about Trump.
Getting worse criticism was BuzzFeed, which published the 35-page classified document on its site as part of its coverage. Trump described the classified report as "false and fake and never happened" and called BuzzFeed a "failing pile of garbage. Writing it, I think they are going to suffer the consequences."
In getting publicly called out by Trump, Acosta and CNN "was somewhat suffering for the sins of BuzzFeed in this case," said Kyle Pope, editor and publisher of the Columbia Journalism Review.
The faceoff, in what was Trump's first press conference in more than five months, portends things to come. "The bigger picture here is that this is going to be a deeply combative relationship between this president and the press," Pope said. "
Ed Wasserman, dean of the graduate school of journalism at the University of California-Berkeley, found the televised event "fairly demoralizing and disappointing," he said. "I had hoped for a more substantive and spirited exchange where he would actually submit to questioning by answering the questions."
Instead, Trump's engagements with the press will be "kind of a ritualized interaction in which Trump reiterates his contempt for the press and the press once again re-earns its reputation for being hypercritical and adversarial."
When the stories broke Tuesday night, Trump took to Twitter calling the reports "fake news" and a "witch hunt." He followed that up Wednesday morning with another tweet: "Russia has never tried to use leverage over me. I HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH RUSSIA - NO DEALS, NO LOANS, NO NOTHING!"
During the press conference, the president-elect complimented many news outlets about their handling of the report, including The New York Times, which did not reference or link to BuzzFeed in its initial story. "I have great respect for the news and great respect for freedom of the press and all of that, but I will tell you there were some news organizations … that were so professional, so incredibly professional, that I’ve just gone up a notch on what I think of you," he said.
Regardless, coverage of the classified briefing is real news, not fake news, and Trump should have expected this story to come out between the briefing and the earlier circulation of the classified document, said Nsenga Burton, digital editor for Grady Newsource and an instructor at the University of Georgia's Cox Media Institute for Journalism, Innovation & Management.  "CNN could not not have a story about that briefing that was circulating and call itself a news organization," she said.