here was no mention of building a wall along the Mexican border. There was nothing about repealing Obamacare. But President-elect Donald Trump has plenty to do in his first 100 days in office.
In a video address on Monday, Trump outlined his priorities in his quest to "put America first." Trump's list focused on steps he could take with executive actions, avoiding the need to go through the US Congress.
Here's a breakdown of his plan.
Withdraw from TPP
Trump says he intends to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations and replace it with "fair bilateral trade deals."
The move will shatter President Barack Obama's aim of strengthening US influence in Asia and could leave the Western world's trade agenda in disarray. The TPP, which was aimed at linking the US economy with 11 countries around the Pacific, took years to negotiate.
"The TPP without the United States is meaningless," Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Monday during a visit to Argentina.
Some experts claimed that the TPP would kill jobs and worsen income inequality across the 12 nations, particularly in the US. Both Trump and Hillary Clinton spoke out against the 12-nation would-be bloc, which is responsible for 40% of world trade.
During a campaign speech in Ohio in June, Trump said the TPP was "another disaster done and pushed by special interests who want to rape our country -- just a continuing rape of our country."
Cancel environmental restrictions
Trump picks climate change denier for EPA team 03:06
Throughout his campaign, Trump was consistent in his promise to reduce environmental restrictions. Now he is vowing to deliver on that.
In his video, Trump says he will "cancel job-killing restrictions on the production of American energy, including shale energy and clean coal" and create "many millions of high-paying jobs."
Though he doesn't specifically mention it by name in Monday's video, one of Trump's primary targets has been Obama's Clean Power Plan, which many critics see as a "war on coal."
The plan, which Trump has previously said he would scrap, targets existing coal-fired and natural gas power plants in an effort to reduce greenhouse emissions in the US by as much as 32% by 2030. It is expected to go before the Supreme Court in early 2017.
READ: Why climate change experts fear Trump's presidency
Trump has previously claimed that climate change is a "hoax" led by the Chinese, though he later claimed he was joking in those remarks. He has also promised to "cancel" the historic Paris Agreement struck last year.
Cut regulation on businesses
Trump says he will formulate a "rule that says for every one new regulation, two old regulations must be eliminated."
He has previously spoken of his desire to ax the Dodd-Frank Act, which was created after the financial crisis to abide by a litany of new rules to prevent another crash.
Dodd-Frank authorized the Fed to require Wall Street banks to hold more cash on hand than they previously had to. That has pinched banks' profits margins in recent years. Legal costs have also markedly increased for big banks since Dodd-Frank became law.